# Procrastination

[Academic Procrastination in Mathematics: Causes, Dangers and Implications of Counselling for Effective Learning](https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1066019.pdf) \#article \#paper

[Academic Procrastination in STEM: Interactive Effects of Stereotype Threat and Achievement Goals](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/j.2161-0045.2014.00076.x) \#paper - “A host of academic outcomes have been investigated as consequences of stereotype threat for women in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics \(STEM\), including attrition and decreased academic performance. However, the role of a potentially important precursor to these negative outcomes—academic procrastination—remains unclear. The present research sought to address this issue. University students \(N = 223\) enrolled in biology, chemistry, physics, and psychology courses participated in the study. Mastery approach, mastery avoidance, and performance avoidance achievement goals were hypothesized to moderate the effect of stereotype threat on academic procrastination. Results indicated significant interactions for women but not for men; however, interactions were not in the hypothesized direction for the avoidance goal moderators. Mastery approach goals exerted a significant buffering effect on the stereotype threat–academic procrastination relationship, but, contrary to prediction, both mastery avoidance and performance avoidance goals exerted a significant buffering effect. Implications for career‐related outcomes among women in STEM are discussed.”

[At last, my research article on procrastination](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0092656686901273) \#paper - “This paper considered three studies designed to examine procrastinatory behavior. In Study I, a general form \(G\) of a true-false procrastination scale was created. This form was based on an earlier version of the scale containing parallel forms A and B. Procrastination was positively related to measures of disorganization and independent of need-achievement, energy level, and self-esteem. High scorers on the procrastination scale were more likely to return their completed inventory late. Procrastination was unrelated to grade-point average \(R = −10\). In Study II, subjects completed Form G of the procrastination scale and a variation of Little's \(1983\) Personal Projects Questionnaire. Based on ratings of their personal projects, procrastinators and nonprocrastinators were distinguished in a number of ways, foremost being the nonprocrastinator's more positive response to the project dimension of stress and the procrastinator's greater sensitivity to how enjoyable the project was in terms of time spent. In Study III, after completing a personality inventory, air-passengers awaiting their flight departure were asked to take an envelope with them and to mail it back on a designated date. Procrastinators were less accurate in doing so than were nonprocrastinators. Various aspects of procrastinatory behavior were discussed, including a reconsideration of the defining of the construct.”

[Procrastination Research Group](https://www.procrastination.ca/) - "Over the past 20 years, our exclusive focus has been on researching the breakdown in volitional action we commonly call procrastination. We seek to understand why we become our own worst enemy at times with needless, voluntary delay. Although our research and site originates at Carleton University \(Ottawa, Canada\), it represents a compilation of information and research on procrastination from all over the world." Creators of the iProcrastinate podcast.

